 Lab Module OOPS - UCS3004 
Lab Course Outcomes: 
At the end of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1 Apply object-oriented concepts such as encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism 
in Java programming 
CO2 Demonstrate proficiency in writing Java programs using basic constructs like data 
types, operators, control structures, and arrays. 
CO3 Develop robust applications using exception handling, packages, interfaces, 
multithreading, and file I/O in Java. 
CO4 Design and build simple real-world projects using Java and apply debugging and 
testing techniques to ensure program correctness and performance. 
 
S. 
No. 
Programs CO 
No. 
1 Write a program to Print "Welcome To Java ". 1 
2 
WAP to print your address i) using single print ii) using multiple println 
1 
3 WAP to print addition of 2 numbers (with Scanner) 1 
4 Write a program in Java to design simple calculator for (+, -, *, and /) using switch 
case 
1 
5 WAP that reads a number in meters converts it to feet and displays the result. 2 
6 Write a Java program that prints all real solutions to the quadratic equation 
ax2+bx+c = 0. Read in a, b, c and use the quadratic formula. If the discriminate 
b2-4ac is negative, display a message stating that there are no real solutions. 
2 
7 Write a java program to find the Fibonacci series using recursive and non 
recursive functions 
2 
8 Write a program in Java for find AXB where A is a matrix of 3X3 and B is a matrix 
of 3X3. 
1,2 
9 Write a program in Java to design accounts class and two functions withdraw () 
and deposit (). 
1,2 
10 Write a program in Java to show the inheritance in java and use of super 
keyword. 
1,2 
11 Write a program in Java to the concept of polymorphism by designing functions 
to sum different type of numbers 
1,2 
12 Write a program to show the concept of method overriding in Java. 1,2 
13 Write a program in Java that import the user define package and access the 
Member variable of classes that Contained by Package. 
1,2 
14 Write a program in Java to handle the Exception using try and multiple catch 
block. 
2 
15 Write a program in Java to create a thread that Implement the Runnable 
interface 
2 
16 Write a program in java which implement interface Student which has two 
methods Display_Grade and Attendance for PG_Students and UG_Students 
(PG_Students and UG_Students are two different classes for Post Graduate and 
Under Graduate Students respectively). 
3 
17 Write a Program to implement simple Thread by extending Thread class and 
implementing runnable interface 
2,3 
18 Write a program to implement following collections a)array List b) Vector  2,3 
19 Write a program that connects to a database using JDBC display all records in a 
table 
4 
20 Write a program to connect to a database using JDBC and insert values in to it . 4 
21 Write a java program to connect to a database using JDBC and delete values from 
table . 
4 
22 Write a program that connects to a database using JDBC display all values 4 
23 Write a program that works as a simple calculator. Use a Grid Layout to arrange 
Buttons for digits and for the + - * % operations. Add a text field to display the 
result. 
4 
 
 